“Text”@Lesson@7Parts
“ Just as a great Bear rushed to seize a stray kid, a Lion leaped from another direction upon the same prey. The two fought furiously for the prize until they had received so many wounds that both sank down unable to continue the battle. Just then a Fox dashed up, and seizing the kid, made off with it as fast as he could go, while the Lion and the Bear looked on in helpless rage. \”How much better it would have been,\” they said, \”to have shared in a friendly spirit.\””@1@3
“ A stray Lamb stood drinking early one morning on the bank of a woodland stream. That very same morning a hungry Wolf came by farther up the stream, hunting for something to eat. He soon got his eyes on the Lamb. As a rule Mr. Wolf snapped up such delicious morsels without making any bones about it, but this Lamb looked so very helpless and innocent that the Wolf felt he ought to have some kind of an excuse for taking its life. \”How dare you paddle around in my stream and stir up all the mud!\” he shouted fiercely. \”You deserve to be punished severely for your rashness!\” \”But, your highness,\” replied the trembling Lamb, \”do not be angry! I cannot possibly muddy the water you are drinking up there. Remember, you are upstream and I am downstream.\” \”You do muddy it!\” retorted the Wolf savagely. "And besides, I have heard that you told lies about me last year!" \”How could I have done so?\” pleaded the Lamb. \”I wasn't born until this year.\” \”If it wasn't you, it was your brother!\” \”I have no brothers.\” \”Well, then,\” snarled the Wolf, \”It was someone in your family anyway. But no matter who it was, I do not intend to be talked out of my breakfast.\” And without more words the Wolf seized the poor Lamb and carried her off to the forest.”@2@3
“ A Wolf had been hurt in a fight with a Bear. He was unable to move and could not satisfy his hunger and thirst. A Sheep passed by near his hiding place, and the Wolf called to him. \”Please fetch me a drink of water,\” he begged, \”that might give me strength enough so I can get me some solid food.\” \”Solid food!\” said the Sheep. \”That means me, I suppose. If I should bring you a drink, it would only serve to wash me down your throat. Don't talk to me about a drink!\””@3@3
“ Hares, as you know, are very timid. The least shadow, sends them scurrying in fright to a hiding place. Once they decided to die rather than live in such misery. But while they were debating how best to meet death, they thought they heard a noise and in a flash were scampering off to the warren. On the way they passed a pond where a family of Frogs was sitting among the reeds on the bank. In an instant the startled Frogs were seeking safety in the mud. \”Look,\” cried a Hare, \”things are not so bad after all, for here are creatures who are even afraid of us!\””@4@3
“ The Fox one day thought of a plan to amuse himself at the expense of the Stork, at whose odd appearance he was always laughing. \”You must come and dine with me today,\” he said to the Stork, smiling to himself at the trick he was going to play. The Stork gladly accepted the invitation and arrived in good time and with a very good appetite. For dinner the Fox served soup. But it was set out in a very shallow dish, and all the Stork could do was to wet the very tip of his bill. Not a drop of soup could he get. But the Fox lapped it up easily, and, to increase the disappointment of the Stork, made a great show of enjoyment.\” The hungry Stork was much displeased at the trick, but he was a calm, even-tempered fellow and saw no good in flying into a rage. Instead, not long afterward, he invited the Fox to dine with him in turn. The Fox arrived promptly at the time that had been set, and the Stork served a fish dinner that had a very appetizing smell. But it was served in a tall jar with a very narrow neck. The Stork could easily get at the food with his long bill, but all the Fox could do was to lick the outside of the jar, and sniff at the delicious odor. And when the Fox lost his temper, the Stork said calmly:”@5@3
“ Two Travelers were walking along the seashore. Far out they saw something riding on the waves. \”Look," said one, "a great ship rides in from distant lands, bearing rich treasures!\” The object they saw came ever nearer the shore. \”No,\” said the other, "that is not a treasure ship. That is some fisherman's skiff, with the day's catch of savoury fish." Still nearer came the object. The waves washed it up on shore. \”It is a chest of gold lost from some wreck,\” they cried. Both Travelers rushed to the beach, but there they found nothing but a water-soaked log.”@6@3
“ A Wolf had stolen a Lamb and was carrying it off to his lair to eat it. But his plans were very much changed when he met a Lion, who, without making any excuses, took the Lamb away from him. The Wolf made off to a safe distance, and then said in a much injured tone: \”You have no right to take my property like that!\” The Lion looked back, but as the Wolf was too far away to be taught a lesson without too much inconvenience, he said: \”Your property? Did you buy it, or did the Shepherd make you a gift of it? Pray tell me, how did you get it?\””@7@3
“ A Stag, drinking from a crystal spring, saw himself mirrored in the clear water. He greatly admired the graceful arch of his antlers, but he was very much ashamed of his spindling legs. \”How can it be,\” he sighed, \”that I should be cursed with such legs when I have so magnificent a crown.\” At that moment he scented a panther and in an instant was bounding away through the forest. But as he ran his wide-spreading antlers caught in the branches of the trees, and soon the Panther overtook him. Then the Stag perceived that the legs of which he was so ashamed would have saved him had it not been for the useless ornaments on his head.”@8@3
“ The Peacock, they say, did not at first have the beautiful feathers in which he now takes so much pride. These, Juno, whose favorite he was, granted to him one day when he begged her for a train of feathers to distinguish him from the other birds. Then, decked in his finery, gleaming with emerald, gold, purple, and azure, he strutted proudly among the birds. All regarded him with envy. Even the most beautiful pheasant could see that his beauty was surpassed. Presently the Peacock saw an Eagle soaring high up in the blue sky and felt a desire to fly, as he had been accustomed to do. Lifting his wings he tried to rise from the ground. But the weight of his magnificent train held him down. Instead of flying up to greet the first rays of the morning sun or to bathe in the rosy light among the floating clouds at sunset, he would have to walk the ground more encumbered and oppressed than any common barnyard fowl.”@9@3
“ The Weasels and the Mice were always up in arms against each other. In every battle the Weasels carried off the victory, as well as a large number of the Mice, which they ate for dinner next day. In despair the Mice called a council, and there it was decided that the Mouse army was always beaten because it had no leaders. So a large number of generals and commanders were appointed from among the most eminent Mice. To distinguish themselves from the soldiers in the ranks, the new leaders proudly bound on their heads lofty crests and ornaments of feathers or straw. Then after long preparation of the Mouse army in all the arts of war, they sent a challenge to the Weasels. The Weasels accepted the challenge with eagerness, for they were always ready for a fight when a meal was in sight. They immediately attacked the Mouse army in large numbers. Soon the Mouse line gave way before the attack and the whole army fled for cover. The privates easily slipped into their holes, but the Mouse leaders could not squeeze through the narrow openings because of their head-dresses. Not one escaped the teeth of the hungry Weasels.”@10@3
“ A Wolf prowling near a village one evening met a Dog. It happened to be a very lean and bony Dog, and Master Wolf would have turned up his nose at such meager fare had he not been more hungry than usual. So he began to edge toward the Dog, while the Dog backed away. \”Let me remind your lordship,\” said the Dog, his words interrupted now and then as he dodged a snap of the Wolf's teeth, \”how unpleasant it would be to eat me now. Look at my ribs. I am nothing but skin and bone. But let me tell you something in private. In a few days my master will give a wedding feast for his only daughter. You can guess how fine and fat I will grow on the scraps from the table. Then is the time to eat me.\” The Wolf could not help thinking how nice it would be to have a fine fat Dog to eat instead of the scrawny object before him. So he went away pulling in his belt and promising to return. Some days later the Wolf came back for the promised feast. He found the Dog in his master's yard, and asked him to come out and be eaten. \”Sir,\” said the Dog, with a grin, \”I shall be delighted to have you eat me. I'll be out as soon as the porter opens the door.\” But the \”porter\” was a huge Dog whom the Wolf knew by painful experience to be very unkind toward wolves. So he decided not towait and made off as fast as his legs could carry him.”@11@3
“ A very young Fox, who had never before seen a Lion, happened to meet one in the forest. A single look was enough to send the Fox off at top speed for the nearest hiding place. The second time the Fox saw the Lion he stopped behind a tree to look at him a moment before slinking away. But the third time, the Fox went boldly up to the Lion and, without turning a hair, said, \”Hello, there, old top.\””@12@3
“ A Lion and an Ass agreed to go hunting together. In their search for game the hunters saw a number of Wild Goats run into a cave, and laid plans to catch them. The Ass was to go into the cave and drive the Goats out, while the Lion would stand at the entrance to strike them down. The plan worked beautifully. The Ass made such a frightful din in the cave, kicking and braying with all his might, that the Goats came running out in a panic of fear, only to fall victim to the Lion. The Ass came proudly out of the cave.\”Did you see how I made them run?\” he said. \”Yes, indeed,\” answered the Lion, \”and if I had not known you and your kind I should certainly have run, too.\””@13@3
“ A Dog had learned to carry his master's dinner to him every day. He was very faithful to his duty, though the smell of the good things in the basket tempted him. The Dogs in the neighborhood noticed him carrying the basket and soon discovered what was in it. They made several attempts to steal it from him. But he always guarded it faithfully. Then one day all the Dogs in the neighborhood got together and met him on his way with the basket. The Dog tried to run away from them. But at last he stopped to argue. That was his mistake. They soon made him feel so ridiculous that he dropped the basket and seized a large piece of roast meat intended for his master's dinner. \”Very well," he said, "you divide the rest.\””@14@3
“ A Jackdaw chanced to fly over the garden of the King's palace. There he saw with much wonder and envy a flock of royal Peacocks in all the glory of their splendid plumage. Now the black Jackdaw was not a very handsome bird, nor very refined in manner. Yet he imagined that all he needed to make himself fit for the society of the Peacocks was a dress like theirs. So he picked up some castoff feathers of the Peacocks and stuck them among his own black plumes. Dressed in his borrowed finery he strutted loftily among the birds of his own kind. Then he flew down into the garden among the Peacocks. But they soon saw who he was. Angry at the cheat, they flew at him, plucking away the borrowed feathers and also some of his own. The poor Jackdaw returned sadly to his former companions. There another unpleasant surprise awaited him. They had not forgotten his superior airs toward them, and, to punish him, they drove him away with a rain of pecks and jeers.”@15@3
“ It happened once upon a time that a certain Greek ship bound for Athens was wrecked off the coast close to Piraeus, the port of Athens. Had it not been for the Dolphins, who at that time were very friendly toward mankind and especially toward Athenians, all would have perished. But the Dolphins took the shipwrecked people on their backs and swam with them to shore. Now it was the custom among the Greeks to take their pet monkeys and dogs with them whenever they went on a voyage. So when one of the Dolphins saw a Monkey struggling in the water, he thought it was a man, and made the Monkey climb up on his back. Then off he swam with him toward the shore. The Monkey sat up, grave and dignified, on the Dolphin's back. \”You are a citizen of illustrious Athens, are you not?\” asked the Dolphin politely. \”Yes,\” answered the Monkey, proudly. \”My family is one of the noblest in the city.\” \”Indeed,\” said the Dolphin. \”Then of course you often visit Piraeus.\” \”Yes, yes,\” replied the Monkey. \”Indeed, I do. I am with him constantly. Piraeus is my very best friend.\” This answer took the Dolphin by surprise, and, turning his head, he now saw what it was he was carrying. Without more ado, he dived and left the foolish Monkey to take care of himself, while he swam off in search of some human being to save.”@16@3
“ An Ass was feeding in a pasture near a wood when he saw a Wolf lurking in the shadows along the hedge. He easily guessed what the Wolf had in mind, and thought of a plan to save himself. So he pretended he was lame, and began to hobble painfully. When the Wolf came up, he asked the Ass what had made him lame, and the Ass replied that he had stepped on a sharp thorn. \”Please pull it out,\” he pleaded, groaning as if in pain. \”If you do not, it might stick in your throat when you eat me.\” The Wolf saw the wisdom of the advice, for he wanted to enjoy his meal without any danger of choking. So the Ass lifted up his foot and the Wolf began to search very closely and carefully for the thorn. Just then the Ass kicked out with all his might, tumbling the Wolf a dozen paces away. And while the Wolf was getting very slowly and painfully to his feet, the Ass galloped away in safety. \”Serves me right,\” growled the Wolf as he crept into the bushes. \”I’m a butcher by trade, not a doctor.\””@17@3
“ Once upon a time a Cat and a Monkey lived as pets in the same house. They were great friends and were constantly in all sorts of mischief together. What they seemed to think of more than anything else was to get something to eat, and it did not matter much to them how they got it. One day they were sitting by the fire, watching some chestnuts roasting on the hearth. How to get them was the question. \”I would gladly get them,\” said the cunning Monkey, \”but you are much more skillful at such things than I am. Pull them out and I'll divide them between us.\” Pussy stretched out her paw very carefully, pushed aside some of the cinders, and drew back her paw very quickly. Then she tried it again, this time pulling a chestnut half out of the fire. A third time and she drew out the chestnut. This performance she went through several times, each time singeing her paw severely. As fast as she pulled the chestnuts out of the fire, the Monkey ate them up. Now the master came in, and away scampered the rascals, Mistress Cat with a burnt paw and no chestnuts. From that time on, they say, she contented herself with mice and rats and had little to do with Sir Monkey.”@18@3
“ Some Dogs found the skin of a Lion and furiously began to tear it with their teeth. A Fox chanced to see them and laughed scornfully. \”If that Lion had been alive,\” he said, \”it would have been a very different story. He would have made you feel how much sharper his claws are than your teeth.\””@19@3
“ Some hungry Dogs saw a number of hides at the bottom of a stream where the Tanner had put them to soak. A fine hide makes an excellent meal for a hungry Dog, but the water was deep and the Dogs could not reach the hides from the bank. So they held a council and decided that the very best thing to do was to drink up the river. All fell to lapping up the water as fast as they could. But though they drank and drank until, one after another, all of them had burst with drinking, still, for all their effort, the water in the river remained as high as ever.”@20@3
“ A Rabbit left his home one day for a dinner of clover. But he forgot to latch the door of his house and while he was gone a Weasel walked in and calmly made himself at home. When the Rabbit returned, there was the Weasel's nose sticking out of the Rabbit's own doorway, sniffing the fine air. The Rabbit was quite angry--for a Rabbit--, and requested the Weasel to move out. But the Weasel was perfectly content. He was settled down for good. A wise old Cat heard the dispute and offered to settle it. \”Come close to me,\” said the Cat, \”I am very deaf. Put your mouths close to my ears while you tell me the facts.\” The unsuspecting pair did as they were told and in an instant the Cat had them both under her claws. No one could deny that the dispute had been definitely settled.”@21@3
