Welcome to today's second session, where we'll have a talk from our invited speaker, Prof. Marianne Pouplier of Ludwig-Maximilians University of München, as well as three paper presentations. 
 
Before asking Prof. Pouplier to the podium, I would like to give a brief introduction to her academic background and research interests.
 
Prof. Pouplier joined to Haskins Laboratories in 1999 and completed her Ph.D. in linguistics at Yale University in 2003. She subsequently held postdoctoral positions at the University of Maryland and the University of Edinburgh.  Since returning to her homeland, Germany, in 2007, she has led an independent research group at the Ludwig-Maximilians University of München, where she has served as a Professor in the Institute of Phonetics and Speech Processing since 2017.  
 
Prof. Pouplier’s primary research interests lie in cognitive, physiological, and typological aspects of phonetics and phonology.  Much of her focus has been devoted to research on articulatory patterns and gestural coarticulation of speech production and their implications for cognitive representation, slips of the tongue, and Phonetic universals. Her articles have been widely published in prestigious journals such as the Journal of Phonetics, Phonetica, Cognitive, Motor Control, Cognition and Neuroscience, and Laboratory Phonology, among others. 
 
On a personal level, I spent three years with our speaker in graduate school at Yale before she left New Haven for her postdoctoral research in Philadelphia.  I remember well that she certainly knew what life was all about even back then. To say nothing of her extraordinary and significant academic achievements during her doctoral studies, she was a biker in town, hiker in the White Mountains in New Hampshire, and a dedicated baker who could magically create a delicious meringue pie. I know people from Haskins Laboratories and the Linguistics Department at Yale appreciated her collaboration, friendship and kindness through and through.  
  
It is a great pleasure to introduce to you our invited speaker, who will present her talk entitled “Speakers, listeners, languages: Coarticulatory variability and contrast in spoken language dynamics.” Please welcome Prof. Marianne Pouplier. 
